
	               	  Keto NPC MOD For Baldur’s Gate 2
                            A Pocket Plane Group Project
                             http://www.pocketplane.net


INTRODUCING KETO

Keto is an NPC add-on for Baldur's Gate 2. A travelling storyteller, Keto has
seen the front door of just about every dungeon in Amn, and seen the inside of
even more taverns. An energetic young woman who has a love/hate relationship
with adventuring (she loves adventure but hates the inevitable peril), Keto
stumbles into the story of the Bhaalspawn while plying her trade in Athkatla's
Five Flagons Inn.

The design goal for Keto can be summed up simply: if we’ve done our job right,
you’ll swear she was always meant to be in the game. We have tried very hard to
give her the same level of detail as the Bioware NPCs, right down to audio
recording and inter-party dialogue. If you have any reactions to share, please
let us know at the Pocket Plane Group forums: http://forums.pocketplane.net

Mirror sites, the latest Keto updates, alternate portrait suggestions and
more will always be available at http://www.pocketplane.net/keto/


INSTALLING KETO

You should obtain and install the latest official patch from www.bioware.com
BEFORE installing Keto. If you have other mods already installed, uninstall
them before applying the patch.

1. Extract the Keto-SOAv2.exe file from Keto-SOAv2.zip and place it anywhere on your
drive.

2. Double-click Keto-SOAv2.exe. The installer will launch, and will automatically
suggest installing in the directory where Windows believes you have BG2
installed. Unless you have a VERY unusual configuration, accept this default.

3. Click to accept the install directory. The installer creates a new "Keto"
directory in your main BG2 folder, copies a number of files, then exits. A new
file, called Setup-Keto.exe, has been created in your main BG2 directory, and
will _automatically_ be run.

4. A console window (DOS window) opens up and asks whether or not you wish to
install Keto. Answer Yes.

4b. If you see a message telling you that a newer version of WeiDU has been
located and that you must re-run Setup-Keto.exe, do so. PLEASE NOTE, this means
that you must browse to your BG2 directory and run *Setup-Keto.exe*. It does
NOT mean you re-run *Keto-SOAv2.exe*.

5. Files will be copied, dialogue will be compiled, and the game will generally
be made ready for Keto. This process may take a minute or two on a slower
system.

6. There are optional installation modules:

- Keto/Kelsey content: With this module, Keto is aware of and will banter with
the Kelsey NPC, also available from http://www.pocketplane.net . Kelsey-SOA
must be installed before Keto for this module to be presented.

- Banter accelerator: With this module, all NPCs will attempt to initiate
banter more frequently. Depending on how fast you play BG2, this component may
help you see all of the new banters added by Keto and other mods before the
game ends. If you already have the banter accelerator installed from the Kelsey
or Banter Pack mod, this option will not be presented.

7. After the text window tells you to press enter to exit, there is one
final stage--decompressing the compressed audio included with Keto to standard
WAV format. The window will fill with text: THIS IS NORMAL. This process may
take a few minutes on a slower system.

8. Enjoy!

If anything goes wrong with the process, or you later wish to uninstall
Keto, run the Setup-Keto.exe program once more and select the U
option.


KETO GAMEPLAY NOTES

You do not need to start a new game in order to take advantage of Keto if you
do not wish to do so.

You can find Keto in the Five Flagons, in the Bridge district of Athkatla. She
is standing near the bar and will tell her tale when you get close enough.

Keto includes extensive banter with all potential party members. Keto also
includes banter with the Kelsey NPC mod. Install Kelsey-SOA before Keto, or re-
run Setup-Keto.exe after Kelsey-SOA has been installed, if you wish to install
their mutual banters.

Keto does not have a romance track in the style of Aerie, Jaheira, Viconia, and
others. That doesn't mean the PC isn't given occasional opportunities to suggest
it, however.


STRING FIXER

Unfortunately, sometimes when multiple MODs are installed and uninstalled,
funky things happen to the strings associated with a mod NPC's name, her select/
confirm text, and so forth.

If this should happen to Keto, select her and press the K key. This should
correct the problem. Thanks to Arian for pioneering this particular technology.


COMPATIBILITY

Keto has been tested with a number of mods and on a number of machines. We
believe her to be compatible with most normal configurations, and most mods
that are designed with an eye toward compatibility with other mods.

KETO TECHNICAL NOTES

Keto's script name is, cleverly enough, "Keto." Her dialogue files are of the
following form:

BFWKETO : banter
FWKETOJ : joined DLG
FWKETO  : Initial meeting
FWKETOP : Out of party, post-joining



NOTES FROM THE EDGE

The Keto NPC project began in 2002 in the modding renaissance that followed the
release of the first version of the Kelsey NPC. Victoria Joyner (Blue, best
known as the author of the wildly popular Dungeon-Be-Gone mod) posted a
character sketch for a bard NPC by the name of Keto, whose enthusiasm for
stories was outstripped only by her enthusiasm for wine. Blue set her sights
very, very high. She focused her development around banter, the interparty
dialogues that have made Baldur's Gate 2 so memorable and rich. To satisfy
players who lamented running out of banter before the game ended, she wanted to
create a character who would offer a seemingly endless amount of things to say.

Blue wrote a prodigious amount of content, but other interests and obligations
caught up with her and the Keto project sat on the shelf for a long, long while.
When I started Pocket Plane Group, I wanted all of the modding projects that I
had been proud to be affiliated with to be part of the new site, so I contacted
Blue and asked her for her blessing to take up the reins, work with what she
had created, and finish the Keto project. She agreed, and with the help of
several others, most notably Bonnie Rutledge (Bons), a talented bard in her own
right, and of course Jessie Gillespie (Stoplight Red) who ably stepped into
Blue's shoes as the voice of Keto, we have finally given Blue's creation life.

Most of Blue's original content has been preserved in one form or another. All
of the dialogue went through editing, and a small percentage were tabled. A
number of new interjections were written. Keto's personal quest and history,
which Blue had outlined but never formalized, was ably created by Bons--no
small feat, as it involved creating an entire retinue of bards to play against
our Keto!

More work lies ahead, of course, as we create a Throne of Bhaal component for
Keto, but until then, we hope you will enjoy the chattiest bard in Athkatla. I
believe we have accomplished Blue's goal as well as our own--the creation of a
top-notch NPC for a top-notch role-playing game.

As Blue would say, "Get the bard off the floor! There's adventuring to do!"

-- Jason Compton


My brain lacks the capacity to hold memories beyond the hours of listening to
Red repeat each Keto line 20 times. And if it looks like anything is wrong with
the mod, remember, it was 3 AM!

-- Bonnie Rutledge



HISTORY

V6: Corrected EE BAMs (switched back to BAMs instead of BMP)
    Moved tp2 inside the mod folder
    Added iconv for text format transformation
    Removd outdated version number from mod name in setup.tra
    Added keto.ini to support ALIEN's Project Infinity
    Renamed French readme and added it to the call during installation
    BWPFixpack fix integrated: Keto will not try to banter with Jaheira if she is not there

V5: EET compatibility
    Updated to WeiDU 246

V4: Full BG2:EE compatibility


V3: French translation by Galathee of the d'Oghmatiques


V2: Corrected some typographical errors
    Added about 50 new voice clips
    Adjusted staging and cutscene timing in the competition
    Contest invitation now has journal entry and reveals Umar on map


V1: Initial Release


				CREDITS


Victoria Joyner (Blue)                          Head Writer

Jason Compton					Writer
jcompton@pocketplane.net                        WeiDU Ninja

Bonnie Rutledge                                 Writer
                                                WeiDU Ninja
                                                Item/Spell Weaving
                                                Keto Portrait Artist
                                                Chief Audio Llama


Additional dialogue: Jesse Meyers, Kish Moore, Wendy Yung (poems), Al Bowers



Voice credits:

Jessie Gillespie (Stoplight Red)                Keto


Dave Bradshaw (Grim Squeaker)                   Penny

Alanna Cauley (Moreina)                         Germione
                                                Poppy

Anna Celnik (Alarielle)                         Talindra

Jason Compton                                   Jasper
                                                Kelsey

Geraldine Fogarty (Eral)                        Prudence
                                                Grainne

Maureen Heller (glain)                          Amaryllis

Simon Jones (SimDing0)                          Stacy
                                                Ulga

Erik Manning (Icelus)                           Barry

Mark Melum                                      Myles

Katherine Nelson                                Tewes
                                                Liffetta

Jill Rosetto (St. Josephine)                    Lyrica

Bonnie Rutledge (Bons)                          Curious Onlooker






Valued Beta Testers: Jennifer Pahl, Hendryk, Andyr, Meira, Rev. Rat Bastard,
Balthamel, Jester

Thanks to St. Josephine for suggestions on Keto's competition stories.

Additional thanks to Mael. And probably to Corvis, since Blue likes
Corvis. "Seconded. Corvis is irresistable!" -- Bons

Thanks to Andrew Scarhart and the people of Cantaria at http://www.chivalry.com
for their musical resources and assistance in bard wrangling.

Keto employs Ogg Vorbis for audio encoding and decoding. More information,
including complete source code, can be found at http://www.xiph.org,
http://www.vorbis.com

Keto technical elements, including scripts, are Copyright © 2004 Jason Compton
and Bonnie Rutledge. Keto audiovisual elements, including recordings and
dialogue, are Copyright © 2002-2004 Victoria Joyner, Jason Compton, and Bonnie
Rutledge unless otherwise noted.

The following recordings were used with the permission of the artists:

"Sally Gardens"
From the album "Cool of the Day"
© Red Chair Records
Produced by Jill Anderson, Dana Altman & Steve Horner
Performed by Jill Anderson
Available at http://www.redchairrecords.com

"I Care Not For These Ladies"
© Andrew Scarhart
Performed by Andrew Scarhart
Available at http://www.chivalry.com/cantaria

"Good People"
From the album "Our Cups Runneth Over"
© Florence Klecka and Monalee Kendall
Performed by A Chorus of Two
Available at http://www.chivalry.com/chorusoftwo/index.html

"Rose By The Door"
From the album "Gentle Rain"
© Wild Thyme (Robert Leckliter, Carl Brehmer, Sherri Burmeister, Mike McKee,
Adrienne Leckliter, Noel Elliott)
Performed by Wild Thyme
Available at http://www.wildthymeband.com/

Additional bard material was provided by the following:

"On My Own" performed by Dave Bradshaw (Grim Squeaker)
Excerpted from "Les Miserables", Copyright © Alain Boublil, Claude-Michel
Schönberg, and Herbert Kretzmer

"The Collier Recruit" performed by Anna Celnik (Alarielle)

"The Butcher's Boy" and "The Spinning Song" performed by Geraldine Baldan (Eral)

Keto is not developed, supported, or endorsed by BioWare or Interplay/Black
Isle.


REDISTRIBUTION NOTE: Keto was created to be freely enjoyed by all Baldur's Gate
2 players. However, Keto may not be sold, published, compiled or redistributed
in any form without the consent of its authors.


LINKS

http://www.weidu.org:                 Home of WeiDU

http://www.pocketplane.net:           Home of Keto, and other fine
                                      projects!

http://www.idi.ntnu.no/~joh/ni:       Home of Near Infinity

http://infexp.sourceforge.net:        Home of Infinity Explorer
